# Tutorial 3
---

## Objectives  
Practice using inheritance and polymorphism. Using abstract classes and interfaces.



## Attendance Quiz

Please log on to cuLearn using on of the computer in the tutorial room and complete the attendance quiz. You can only access the quiz if you log in using one of the computers in the lab. You cannot use a laptop for this. This is a time limited quiz. Be sure to do this as soon as you arrive.

At the end of the tutorial a TA will assign you a grade, call it G, which is 0, 1 or 2, depending on the progress you make during the tutorial. If you spend your time reading mail and chatting with your friends you will receive 0. If you have completed the attendance quiz on time then G will be your tutorial grade. If you have not completed the attendance quiz on time, then your tutorial grade will be max(0, G - 1/2). Each tutorial grade will therefore be one of 0, 0.5, 1.5 or 2.

---

## Animal
Consider the `Animal` class provided. It is an abstract class to model animals. Read the class and see what it provides.

Override Object's `toString()` method in the `Animal` class so that it prints out the animals name and age. 

Note: assuming your computer's clock is correct, we can get the current year in Java using

```
java.util.Calendar now = java.util.Calendar.getInstance();
int year = now.get(java.util.Calendar.YEAR);
```

---
 
## Cat and Dog
The `Cat` and `Dog` classes should __extend__ the animal class. Add any needed constructors and methods to make these work.

Note: The noise that a cat makes should be meow or prrr (randomly chosen each time it's noise method is called), and the noise a dog makes should be woof or grrrr (randomly chosen each time it's nose method is called).

---

## AnimalApp
The `AnimalApp` program generates an array of animals and calls the noise method of each. You can use this to test your `Animal`, `Cat` and `Dog` classes.


---

## Owl
Create an `Owl` class that extends the `Animal` class. The class should have a three-argument constructor that takes a string (name), an integer (birth year) and a boolean (that determines if it is a __wise__ owl or not). The string representation of an owl should include its name, age and whether or not it is wise or not. 

An owl's noise is hoooo.

Modify the `AnimalApp` program so that some owl objects are also created.

---
---

### JavaDocs


Look at the code in the `Animal` class.  You'll notice that the comments look slightly different. In DrJava, with the `Animal` class open, click the `Javadoc` button (just to the right of the compile and run buttons).

After answering yes to the next two questions, you should be directed to a web browser with a new tab Showing the API of all the classes you have open in DrJava right now.  From the left-side menu, click the `Animal` class.  Look at the API that was generated for this class.  Look at all of the API for this class (click the links for example).  Now go look at the comments in the `Animal.java` file. You should see some patterns/connections here.

The API you are looking at was generated by the Javadoc tool, using the special comments in the `Animal` class. What is the Javadoc tool?  From wikipedia, we find

_Javadoc is a documentation generator from Oracle Corporation for generating API documentation in HTML format from Java source code. The HTML format is used to add the convenience of being able to hyperlink related documents together._


In your code, you can add a special comment block just __before__ a class, attribute, method or constructor 
declaration.  This block of comments will be used in the generated API to describe whatever it is that the 
comment blocks comes before.  There are some special tags that the Javadoc tool will read and use in this
comment block.  Here some simple rules

- The comment block must start with `/**` (two stars instead of 1) and end with `*/`
- The `@author` tag will list the author of the class or method
- For methods, each input argument should have an associated `@param` tag describing that input. (We can add pre-conditions on the argument here.)
- For method, the `@returns` tag is used to describe the output (and any post-conditions). 
- You can use basic HTML tags to help format the text.  For example, `<code>main</code>` will format ``main'' in code format. Use `<p>` to start a new paragraph (with a blank line).


Read the Javadoc Comments and Javadoc Tags sections of the following short tutorial (from CS240 at Brigham Young University)

[https://students.cs.byu.edu/~cs240ta/winter2017/tutorials/javadoctutorial.php](https://students.cs.byu.edu/~cs240ta/winter2017/tutorials/javadoctutorial.php)


Skim through the Oracle documentation for writing Javadoc comments 
[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html)


Add some Javadoc tags to your various animal (sub)classes.


---
---

## Extra
Create two new subclasses for each of the `Cat`, `Dog` and `Owl` classes. For each pair of new classes, have one introduce a new noise that is specific to that specific kind of cat, dog or owl. 

